Q : Does AICTE allow Arts and Science Courses in an Institution offering Engineering Courses?
A: If an Institution offering Courses in Engineering and Technology has excess Built-up area
after fulfilling the norms as per Approval Process Handbook, the same may be utilized for
running a separate Arts and Science College in the same location, fulfilling all the
requirements of Arts and Science as demanded by the respective University. Permitting to
run Arts and Science Courses does not mean reduction in Engineering Faculty or
Infrastructure. Students of different disciplines need to mingle with each other to create
innovative new products acceptable in the Society. The Engineers from such Institution shall
have holistic values towards Society and Nation. They are complementary to each other, not
one at the cost of the other.
Though AICTE is not insisting on a boundary wall separating the Arts College and
Engineering Institution, both the Institutions have to function as two different Institutions.
The Common Amenities such as Administrative Infrastructure, Canteen, Auditorium,
Playground, Parking, etc. may be shared, provided it caters to all the students of all the
Programmes.
Refer Chapter VII of APH 2020-21. The Institutions may conduct Courses using the existing
facilities, or by creating additional facilities as per the provisions laid down in the norms and
standards of the respective Regulatory Bodies without affecting the quality of education
prescribed by both the Regulatory Bodies after taking NOC from the Council.

Q : Where to send the queries related to portal and approval related issues for the approval
process 2020-21?
A : Send portal related queries to: helpdesk1@aicte-india.org
Send APH related queries to: helpdeskab@aicte-india.org

Q : Is it mandatory for an Institution offering Courses in Architecture to obtain recognition from
AICTE?
A : In compliance to the order dated 08.11.2019 passed by the Hon’ble Supreme Court of India
in CA No.364/ 2005, for the existing Institutions offering Courses in Architecture
Programme, approval by the Council of Architecture is mandatory, however interested
Institutions may apply to the AICTE for approval.

Q : Whether establishment of a new Technical Institution to offer Courses in Engineering and
Technology is permissible in Academic Year 2020-21?
A : The Council shall not grant approval to the new Technical Institutions at the Diploma/ Under
Graduate/ Post Graduate Level in Engineering and Technology in line with the
recommendations of the Committee set up by AICTE to provide the National Perspective Plan
for Technical Programmes. However, establishment of new Technical Institutions in
Engineering and Technology shall be permitted only in cases specified in APH 2020-21.

Q : Whether establishment of a new Technical Institution to offer Courses in Pharmacy is
permissible in Academic Year 2020-21?
A : Establishment of New Pharmacy Institutions for offering Diploma/ Degree Courses in
Pharmacy shall not be permitted for a period of Two years beginning from the Academic Year
2020-21. However, establishment of new Technical Institutions in Pharmacy shall be
permitted only in cases specified in APH 2020-21.

Q : a. Whether MCA/ MBA Department of Arts and Science College is eligible to apply for AICTE
approval?
A: Yes. Refer Clause 1.3.5 of APH 2020-21. In case of non-Technical Institutions seeking
approval for conducting MCA/ MBA and University Departments/ Constituent Colleges
seeking approval for conducting MCA/ MBA/ M.Pharm./ M.Tech. Programmes apart from
their existing Courses, separate building and Principal are not required. However, in such
cases all other norms (as per APH 2020-21) such as separate Head of the Department,
Faculty, Infrastructure, Built-Up area, etc. should be fulfilled.

Q : What is the difference between LoI and LoA?
A : Letter of Intent (LoI) is the provisional approval given to the applicant to start a new
Technical Institution, if the documents are found in order (based on Scrutiny Committee).
On receipt of LoI, the Infrastructure facilities may be developed and the same shall be
informed to AICTE. EVC will be conducted to verify the fulfillment of the norms specified in
APH 2020-21 to issue Letter of Approval (LoA), only then, the Institutions are eligible to
admit the students, fulfilling the norms of affiliating body (as applicable). Validity of LoI as
well as LoA is two years.

Q : Can I apply for closure of the existing Institution and open a new Institution at the same
premises?
A : Yes. If the Scrutiny Committee found the application for closure is in order and recommend
for the closure of the existing Programme(s), then the processing for new Institution for the
new Programme (except Engineering and Technology/ Pharmacy) shall be considered.

Q : Whether the new Institution is obligated to appoint the Principal and the Faculty at the time
of application for approval or subsequent to approval before commencement of the Course?
Whether the Faculty to be appointed are for the First Year of the Course or for the entire
period of the Course?
A: The new Institution is obligated to appoint the Principal and the Faculty before the
commencement of the Course. The Faculty to be appointed are for the First Year of the Course
and it will be progressively done each year so that when an Expert Visit Committee conducted any
time before the first batch of students has passed out, the availability of the facilities of
an Institution as per the norms in Approval Process Handbook shall be verified.

Q : We have been granted LoI in 2019-20 and LoA was rejected. How can we get LoA this year?
A : Applicants issued Letter of Intent (LoI) but rejected after the Expert Visit Committee shall
inform the Council about their readiness of infrastructure after making the payment of TER
Charges as per Clause 1.4.2 of APH 2020-21 through online for the conduct of another
Expert Visit Committee.

Q : We have got the first approval for our Institution in 2019-20. But we had not admitted
students due the delay in getting affiliation. Do we need to apply for EoA?
A : ALL the applicants issued LoA for starting the New Technical Institutions shall apply on
AICTE Web-Portal for Extension of Approval as specified in the Approval Process Handbook
from the next Academic Year onwards, irrespective of the admission of the students.

Q : We had 25 years of Live Lease at the time of our approval for establishment of new Technical
Institution, currently our Live Lease is 5 years. What should we do to get the EoA?
A : In case of Institutions having Lease agreement for Land, the Council shall not issue EoA from
the Year in which the Live Lease is equal to the number of years of the Course having the
maximum duration. However, if such Institutions submit the Lease extended for further 30
years with atleast 25 years of Live Lease, EoA shall be considered.

Q : Our Institution was given Withdrawal of Approval in 2018-19. We are not able to apply
under 2020-21 application.
A : You have to apply as a New Institution in 2020-21

Q : Our Intake was reduced to 50% due to the enrollment less than 30% in the past 5 years
consecutively. The student admission this year is more than 30%. Should we have to apply
for Restoration in 2020-21?
A : The Institution falling under this category need not apply for restoration and the Intake shall
be automatically reinstated by the Council, if the enrolment becomes more than 30% based
on the student enrolment data provided by the Institution.

Q : We have 5 Diploma Courses, Can we apply for conversion of Two Diploma Courses only into
Degree Courses?
A : No. Partial conversion of Levels is not permitted.

Q : We are having UG and PG Courses in Engineering and Technology. We would like to apply for conversion of our Under Graduate Courses into Diploma Level? Should we have to apply
for closure of PG Courses?
A : PG Courses in Engineering and Technology should be applied for closure.

Q : We would like to apply for conversion of our UG Degree Courses into Diploma Courses, but
we don’t find the nomenclature of certain Courses in Annexure 3. How can we apply?
A : You have to continue at the same Level or may opt for the closure of the Course(s).

Q : The existing Institution seeking approval to start new Programme shall be permitted to apply
for the same only after one batch of students pass out. We started Diploma in Pharmacy from
academic year 2019-20 and we would like to apply for B. Pharmacy from 2020-21. Is it
possible to apply for that? Please kindly guide us.
A: The existing Institutions offering Diploma in Pharmacy shall ONLY be permitted to start
Degree in Pharmacy and vice-versa in the same Institution provided that the Built-up area,
Faculty: Student ratio and other requirements shall be fulfiled as specified in the Approval
Process Handbook. Refer Clause 2.12 of APH 2020-21.

What is General Guidelines for All FDC Schemes SCHEME?
General Guidelines for All FDC Schemes
General Guidelines Applicable to all Faculty Development Schemes of AICTE.
For More Information : https://www.aicte-india.org/sites/default/files/guidlines%20upload%20website.pdf

What is AICTE STTP-SFURTI SCHEME?
AICTE STTP-SFURTI
STTP-SFURTI intends to conduct faculty and student trainings through financial assistance from AICTE to enable faculty members and students in the field of technical education to introspect and learn techniques that can help prepare faculty and students to impart there research work in the development of small-scale business for the nation.
For More Information : https://www.aicte-india.org/sites/default/files/sfurti/STTP_SFURTIschemedocamndedon10dec2021.pdf

What is AICTE- NATIONAL INITIATIVE FOR TECHNICAL TEACHERS TRAINING (AICTE - NITTT) SCHEME?
AICTE- NATIONAL INITIATIVE FOR TECHNICAL TEACHERS TRAINING (AICTE - NITTT)
In order to train the Inductee Teachers in AICTE approved / recognised institutions, National Initiative for Technical Teachers Training (for Inductee Teachers) has been launched. It imparts training to the Inductee Teachers in three phases. The first phase of the training programme for the Inductee Teachers shall be conducted in Massive Open Online Courses (MOOCs) mode for eight modules on the SWAYAM platform through the NITTT portal www.nittt.ac.in followed by one-month industrial internship (second phase) and then mentor based training (third phase).
For More Information : https://www.aicte-india.org/sites/default/files/NITTT%20Scheme%20document.pdf

What is AICTE-Best Teachers Award (Visvesvaraya Best Teachers Award and Pritam Singh Foundation Award) SCHEME?
AICTE-Best Teachers Award (Visvesvaraya Best Teachers Award and Pritam Singh Foundation Award)
This scheme is aimed to recognize the meritorious faculties on Teachers Day i.e. 5th September every year at National level and encourage them to update themselves to the ever changing needs of higher education at global level and thereby becoming an effective contributor towards the society.
For More Information : https://www.aicte-india.org/sites/default/files/fds/VBTAschemedocumentjune3.pdf

What is AICTE-Quality Improvement program SCHEME?
AICTE-Quality Improvement program
The main objective of the programme is to upgrade the qualification of the faculty members of the degree and polytechnic level institutions in the country. Financial assistance  @Rs. 15000/-PM and Rs. 5000/ PM are given to Ph.D/ M.Tech Scholars. Presently 114 QIP centers are operational throughout the country.
For More Information : https://www.aicte-india.org/sites/default/files/QIPSchemeDocumentNovember2020.pdf

What is AICTE-RESEARCH PROMOTION SCHEME (RPS) SCHEME?
AICTE-RESEARCH PROMOTION SCHEME (RPS)
This scheme Promotes Research in identified thrust areas of in Technical Education. RPS is aimed to create research ambience in the institutes by promoting research in engineering sciences and innovations in established and newer technologies; and to generate Master’s and Doctoral degree candidates to augment the quality of faculty and research. The limit of funding is Rs 25 Lakh for project duration of 3 years.
For More Information : https://www.aicte-india.org/sites/default/files/fdc/RPSSchemeDocument_Nov2020.pdf